# Build
The `acs-packaging` project uses _Travis CI_. \
The `.travis.yml` config file can be found in the root of the repository.


## Stages
Although a little unusual, builds of branches other than `master` and `release` branches are preceded by
cloning and building branches with the same name in upstream projects: `alfresco-community-repo` and
`alfresco-enterprise-repo`. This is done so that development can take place in parallel between projects
without having to do development releases to link them together. In fact, you don't even have to wait for
the upstream Travis build to complete. You just need to make sure the parent poms reference
each other and the `dependency.alfresco-community-repo.version` and
`dependency.alfresco-enterprise-repo.version` use the same SNAPSHOT values.

1. **test**: Java build with unit tests, integration tests and WhiteSource scan.
2. **docker_latest**: 
3. **release**: 
3. **publish**: Artifact deployment to AWS Release bucket.


ALL BELOW IS COPIED FROM ANOTHER PROJECT

## Branches
Travis CI builds differ by branch:
* `master` / `SP/*` / `HF/*` branches:
  - regular builds which include the _Build_ stage;
    > On the `master` branch only the _Build_ stage updates the `latest` T-Engines images on 
    > both Quay and DockerHub:
    > - alfresco/alfresco-pdf-renderer
    > - alfresco/alfresco-imagemagick
    > - alfresco/alfresco-tika
    > - alfresco/alfresco-libreoffice
    > - alfresco/alfresco-transform-misc
    > - alfresco/alfresco-transform-core-aio
  - if the commit message contains the `[trigger release]` tag, the builds will also 
  include the _Release_ stage;
  - PR builds where the latest commit contains the `[trigger release]` tag will execute dry runs 
  of the release jobs (no artifacts will be published until the PR is actually merged).
* `ATS-*` branches:
  - regular builds which include only the _Build_ and _Tests_ stages;
* `company_release` branch:
  - builds that include the _Company Release_ stage only.
  - the `company_release` branch should be used for one-off events; once used (a build 
  completes), the branch should be deleted.

All other branches are ignored.


## Release process steps & info
Prerequisites:
 - the `master` / `SP/*` / `HF/*` branch is green and it contains all the changes that should be 
 included in the next release.

Steps:
1. Create a new branch with the name `ATS-###_release_version` from the `master` / `SP/*`/ `HF/*` 
branch.
2. Update the project version if the current POM version is not the next desired release; use a
maven command, i.e.
    ```bash
    mvn versions:set -DnewVersion=#.##.#-SNAPSHOT versions:commit
    ```
3. Update the project's dependencies (remove the `-SNAPSHOT` suffixes - only for dependencies, not
 for the local project version).
4. Create a new commit with the `[trigger release]` tag in its message. If no local changes have 
been generated by steps (2) and (3), then an empty commit should be created - e.g.
     ```bash
     git commit --allow-empty -m "ATS-###: Release T-Core (T-Engines) #.##.# [trigger release]"
     ```
 
     > The location of the `[trigger release]` tag in the commit message is irrelevant.

     > If for any reason your PR contains multiple commits, the commit with the `[trigger release]`
     tag should be the last (newest) one. This will trigger the Release dry runs.
5. Open a new Pull Request from the `ATS-###_release_version` branch into the original
`master` / `SP/*` / `HF/*` branch and wait for a green build; the **Release** stage on the PR build
 will only execute a _Dry_Run_ of the release.
6. Once it is approved, merge the PR, preferably through the **Rebase and merge** option. If the 
**Create a merge commit** (_Merge pull request_) or **Squash and merge** options are used, you 
need to ensure that the _commit message_ contains the `[trigger release]` tag (sub-string).

## Company Release process steps & info
Prerequisites:
  - The **Release** stage is complete - i.e. the release commit is tagged and the release 
  artifacts are deployed on Nexus.

Steps:
1. Create a new `company_release` branch from the `master` / `SP/*`/ `HF/*` branch. This job uses 
the latest branch git tag to identify the version that must be uploaded to the S3 release bucket.
2. Wait for a green build on the branch.
3. Delete local and remote `company_release` branch.
